# The code in this repository reads in the data from the UCI study on fitness trackers. 
* After loading the required package, the user sets the working directory, which is the location where the data was unzipped.
* Using **read.table**, we read in the training and test data for the study, and store them into appropriately named variables. The X values are the metrics from the trackers, the Y values are activity identifiers, and the subject values are identifiers for the participants. The *features* variable is a file of names for the metrics --- they describe the movement measured by the tracker. The *labels* variable is a label of activities, including sitting, standing, laying.
* Using **rbind**, we combine the training and test data --- first for X, then for Y, and finally for the subject. This results in three *combined_* variables: one for each data group.
* Since the default column names are numeric, we want to apply the field names provided by the study. The code in line 26 applies the variable names in the *features* file to the combined X data. The next two lines give the Y and subject data simple, descriptive names.
* The objective of this script is to retrieve means and standard deviations, we use the **grep** function to search the features for values containing "mean\(" or "sd\(". Since some features contained values such as "meanFreq," we must take care when writing our regular expression to ensure that we only keep the mean and standard deviation columns. The column indices of these fields of interest are stored into a variable called *mean_std*
* The next step, on line 34, is the culmination of the data manipulation so far. We use **cbind** to combine the columns of the X, Y, and subject information. We also use the *mean_std* variable to filter down to the rows we care about. After this is done, we remove the previously saved data, since we no longer need it.
* Starting in line 44, we use the **dplyr** package to add the activity labels to our data. We join the *total_data* with the *labels* and drop the *activity_index* variable. 
* At last, we make a tidy dataset: we group by *activity_level* and *subject_id* and summarise each remaining column with the **mean** function. This new dataset is saved as *tidy_df*, and we then remove *labels* and *total_data* from our workspace.